1.HDFS:
	*Hadoop Distributed File System.
	*The file stored in HDFS provides scalable,fault-tolerant storage at low-cost.
	*The HDFS software detects and compensates for hardware issues,including disk 
problems and server failure.
	*HDFS stores files across the collection of serverin a cluster.
	*Files are decomposed into blocks and each block is written to more than one of 
the servers.
	*HDFS makes applications available for parallel processing.
	*Features of HDFS
		1.It is suitable for the distributed storage and processing.
		2.Hadoop provides a command interface to interact with HDFS.
		3.The built-in servers of namenode and datanode helps users to easily check
the status of cluster.
		4.Streaming access to file system data.
		5.HDFS provides file permissions and authenication.

2.Hadoop cluster:
		A Hadoop cluster is a special type of computational cluster designed specifically
for storing and analyzing huge amounts of unstructured data in a distributed environment.
		Hadoop clusters are known for boosting the speed of data analysis applications.
They are highly scalable. If a cluster's processing power is overwhelmed by growing volumes of
data, additional cluster nodes can be added to increase throughput.Hadoop clusters are highly
resistant to failure because each piece of data is copied onto other cluster nodes, which ensures
that the data is not lost if one node fails.


3.HDFS Blocks:
	*Block:
		A block is a smallest unit of data that can be stored or retrieved from the 
disk. Filesystems deal with the data stored in blocks.
	Two operations is performed:
		*read and
		*write
	*HDFS Block:
		1.HDFS stores the data in terms of blocks.
		2.The block size is very large.
		3.The default size of HDFS block is 64MB.
		4.The files are split into 64MB blocks and then stored into the hadoop file
system.
	*Advantages:
		1.The blocks are of fixed size,so it is very easy to calculate the number of 
blocks that can be stored on a disk.
		2.HDFS block concept simplifies the storage of the datanodes.The datanodes
doesn't need to concern about the blocks metadata like fie permissions etc.
		3.If the size of the file is less than the HDFS block size,then the file does
not occupy the complete block storage. 